1. Which of the following describes the role of boolean variables in programming?
    Boolean variables store one of two values: true or false

2. What is the primary purpose of pseudocode in programming?
    To outline the logic of a program in plain language before coding

3. What is the primary purpose of variables in programming?
    To store data that can be used and manipulated by a program

4. What is the significance of data types in programming?
    They define the kind of values that variables hold

5. Which control structure executes a code block only when a specific condition is true?
    if statement

6. Which loop would you use to execute instructions repeatedly until a condition changes?
    while loop

7. What is a method in programming?
    A block of code designed to perform a specific task

Practice Quiz: Logical Thinking in Programming

1. Which of the following best describes the principle of deductive reasoning in programming?
    Drawing a specific conclusion based on general premises

2. How does logical thinking help in debugging a function that calculates the square of a number incorrectly?
    It helps identify where the function is likely going wrong by applying deductive reasoning

3. Which logical thinking technique is most useful for integrating new features, like a "dark mode," into an existing application?
    Using deductive reasoning to determine how new features will interact with existing components

Practice Quiz: Introduction to Debugging

1. Which of the following best describes a logical error in a program?
    A mistake in the program that produces incorrect results but does not crash the program

2. When debugging a piece of code, what is the primary use of breakpoints?
    To pause the execution of code at a specific point to inspect the state of the program

3. Which tool in Visual Studio Code is used to inspect variable values during debugging?
    The Debugger Inspector

QUIZ:
1. What is the purpose of the Main method in a C# program?
    It serves as the entry point for program execution

2. Which of the following is a valid way to display text to the console in C#?
    Console.WriteLine("Hello, World!");

3. What does the following C# code do?
    It prints numbers 1 through 5

GRADED ASSIGNMENT:

1. A variable in programming is used for:
    Storing data that can change during program execution

2. In C#, the string data type is used to store:
    Text

3. Which of the following is an example of a control structure?
    if statement

4. Which of the following control structures repeats a block of code a specific number of times?
    for

5. How do methods improve the efficiency of a program?
    They allow code to be reused and organized into logical sections

6. Why is pseudocode useful in programming?
    It helps plan and outline the logic of a program before writing actual code

7. When using a debugger, what is the function of stepping through the code?
    To execute the program line by line and observe its behaviour

8. Which of the following is an example of applying logical thinking in programming?
    Breaking down a high-level task into smaller steps

9. Which of the following is a valid syntax for writing a method in C#?
    public int Add(int a, int b)

10. Why is pseudocode important when starting a programming project?
    It helps outline the logic and flow of a program before coding