Practice Quiz: Introduction to .NET and Visual Studio Code

1. How do front-end engineers use programming skills in their day-to-day work?
    By writing code to style web pages and make them visually appealing
    By creating interactive elements on a website, like forms and buttons

2. Explain the .NET ecosystem, including its significance and different versions.
    The .NET ecosystem inclues .NET Framework, .NET Core, and .NET 5+ to support different use cases
    The .NET ecosystem supports a wide range of applications, including web, desktop, and mobile

3. Explain how Visual Studio Code integrates with the .NET environment.
    Visual Studio Code allows for bebugging, runing, and testing .NET applications directly
    VIsual Studio Code supports .NET development through extensions like C# and .NET Core

Practice Quiz: Visual Studio Code and .NET Integration

1. What is a key feature of Visual Studio Code that enhances developers' productivity?
    IntelliSense provides smart code completions and error detection

2. How does Visual Studio Code integrate into the .NET development workflow?
    It allows project setup, coding, debugging, and deployment in one environment

3. What role does Visual Studio Code play in .NET projects?
    It provides essential tools for writting, running, and debugging .NET projects

Practice Quiz: Setting Up Your .NET Development Environment

1. What is the first step in installing the .NET SDK on your machine? 
    Download the installer from the official .NET website

2. Which extension is recommended in Visual Studio Code to help manage .NET projects? 
    C# Dev Kit

3. What is a crucial step when setting up a .NET development environment in Visual Studio Code?
    Installing essential extentions like C# Dev Kit

COMANDOS:
    dotnet new console -n NomeDoProjeto
    dotnet new webapi -n NomeDaAPI
    dotnet new classlib -n NomeDaBiblioteca
    dotnet new sln -n NomeDaSolucao
    dotnet restore
    dotnet build
    dotnet run
    dotnet list package
    dotnet sln NomeDaSolucao.sln add Caminho/DoProjeto.csproj
    dotnet sln NomeDaSolucao.sln remove Caminho/DoProjeto.csproj
    dotnet add package NomeDoPacote
    dotnet restore
    dotnet list package --outdated
    dotnet add package NomeDoPacote --version x.x.x
    dotnet publish -c Release -o pastaDestino
    dotnet publish -c Release -o ./publicado
    dotnet publish -r win-x64 --self-contained true -p:PublishSingleFile=true
    dotnet --version
    dotnet --info
    dotnet new list
    dotnet clean

Practice Quiz: Initiating a New .NET Project

1. What is the first step to creating a new .NET project using Visual Studio Code?
    Open the command palette and search for .NET new project

2. What file in a .NET project contains the project configuration, including how to handle running, testing, and building the project?
    The .csproj file

3. Which command is used in the terminal to create a new .NET project?
    dotnet new

ORGANIZAÇÃO:

Seperation of Concerns: dividir um programa em secções distintas, cada uma responsável por um aspeto ou funcionalidade específica da app

/src -> pasta para código não compilado num projeto

Practice Quiz: Organizing .NET Projects

1. Which file in a .NET project typically serves as the entry point for the application?
    Program.cs

2. What is the primary goal of using naming conventions for files and directories in a .NET project?
    To enhance readability and maiintainability

3. What is the role of the bin folder in a .NET project?
    It stores the compiled code of the application

Graded Quiz: Foundations of .NET Development and Visual Studio Code Integration

1. What is the primary purpose of the .NET environment?
    To provide a platform for building and running applications across different platforms

2. How does Visual Studio Code support .NET projects?
    It provides a lightweight, cross-platform editor with extensions for .NET development

3. What tool must you first install to begin developing .NET applications on a new system?
    .NET SDK

4. What command-line tool is essential for creating new .NET projects?
    .NET CLI for managing and creating projects

5. Which folder in a .NET project typically contains compiled output files?
    Bin folder for storing compiled output files

6. How do you clean the build output of a .NET project using CLI?
    It specifies external packages and libraries required for the project

7. How do you clean the build output of a .NET project using CLI?
    Use the dotnet clean command

8. Which extension is essential for .NET development in Visual Studio Code?
    C# Dev Kit extension

9. What type of files are found in the obj folder in a .NET project?
    Intermidiate files generated during the build process

10. Why is following best practices for file organization in .NET projects important?
    It helps maintain code readability and simplifies project management